README.md, before:

TBone
=====

### Declarative programming in Javascript

TBone extends live template binding to Javascript functions.

Similarly to how live templates bind automatically to changes in any of the
properties used to render them, TBone uses T-functions to track all the
dependencies of a function, and will re-run them any time those values
change.

### Example

```javascript
// Bind `fullname` to be the concatenation of `first` and `last`
T('fullname', function () {
    return T.text('first') + ' ' + T.text('last');
});

T('first', 'Sally'); // Set `first` to 'Sally'
T('last', 'Smith'); // Set `last` to 'Smith'

// Set `last` to 'Rogers' after 2 seconds
setTimeout(function () {
    T('last', 'Rogers');
}, 2000);

// Create an auto-executing T-function that sets span text based on `fullname`
T(function () {
    $('span').text(T.text('fullname'));
    // -> "Sally Smith"
    // -> after 2 seconds, "Sally Rogers"
});
```

In addition to declarative-programming infrastructure, TBone provides
functions for rendering live templates/views, as well as models and
collections.

TBone was originally built as an extension upon Backbone, and owes
much of its Model/View API (as well as a verbatim copy of
Backbone.sync), to [Backbone](http://backbonejs.org/).

## Download

* [Development version, with comments](http://cdn.tbonejs.org/tbone-v0.3.0.js) *23kB gzipped*
* [Production version, minified](http://cdn.tbonejs.org/tbone-v0.3.0.min.js) *5.4kB gzipped*

For personal use or low-traffic sites, feel free to use our CDN:

```html
Development: <script src="http://cdn.tbonejs.org/tbone-v0.3.0.js"></script>
Production: <script src="http://cdn.tbonejs.org/tbone-v0.3.0.min.js"></script>
```

## The Four Tenets of TBone

### run: `T(fn)`

Run **fn** now, and again anytime its dependencies change.

- **fn**: Function.  This is executed immediately.  **fn** will get re-run
  again anytime the T-references it makes change.  Thus, generally **fn**
  should be [idempotent](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idempotence#Computer_science_meaning),
  though advanced users may find other strategies useful.

### get: `T(prop)`

Gets **prop** and bind current T-function to changes in it.

- **prop**: String.  e.g. 'name' or 'person.name.first'

### set value: `T(prop, value)`

Sets **prop** to **value**.

- **prop**: String.  e.g. 'name' or 'person.name.first'.
- **value**: any serializable object (String, Number, Array, Object, Date),
  or a TBone/Backbone model/collection.

### set function: `T(prop, fn)`

Binds **prop** to the live result of **fn**

- **prop**: String.  e.g. 'name' or 'person.name.first'.
- **fn**: Function.  The return value of this function will be set to **prop**.
  This function gets re-run any time its dependencies change.

## TBone Models

`T` (or `tbone`) is just a TBone model.  You can make more!

- `tbone.models.base`: Base TBone Model
- `model.extend(prototypeProperties)`: Creates your very own TBone Model prototype.
- `model.make(instanceProperties)`: Make a new model instance.

### Model methods

- `model(...)`: Models are callable, using the Four Tenets of TBone above.
- `model.text(prop)`: read **prop** from the model, except return an empty string
  if the value is not a string, Number other than NaN, or a Date.
- `model.toggle(prop)`: sets **prop** to !**prop**, i.e. alternate between
  true and false.
- `model.query(prop, [value])`: Same as get / set value.
- `model.find(value)`: Search for **value**, and return the prop path of the
  first match found (using referential equality, ===).
- `model.push(prop, value)`: Add **value** at the end of the list at **prop**.
- `model.unshift(prop, value)`: Insert **value** at beginning of the list at
  **prop**.
- `model.removeFirst(prop)`: Remove the first item from the list at **prop**,
  like `shift` except that you don't get the value back.
- `model.removeLast(prop)`: Remove the last item from the list at **prop**,
  like `pop` except that you don't get the value back.

### Model properties

- `model.url`: Override this to set either a URL or function that returns
  a URL to fetch data via XHR.  If a function, you can use T-references to
  make this model re-fetch data on a property change (e.g. applying a filter).
- `model.state`: Override this with a function to generate this model's data.
  This has similar utility to `T(prop, fn)`.

### Collections

TBone Collections are a subclass of Model.  The main difference is that the
root data item is an Array instead of an Object.

- `tbone.collections.base`: Base TBone Collection.
- `collection.extend`, `collection.make`, etc.: Same as for Models.

## TBone Views

- `tbone.createView(name, fn)`: Set the View "ready" function for **name**.
  Match this up to a template by syncing **name** with the template's **name**.
- `tbone.addTemplate(name, template)`: Register a new template, either a string
  or a function.  If a string is passed, it will be passed to _.template after
  re-writing variable references in the template as tbone queries.
- `tbone.dontPatch(prop)`: Don't tbone-query-patch variables starting with
  **prop** in tbone.addTemplate.  For example, if you have a formatting library
  at `window.stringz`, use `tl.dontPatch('stringz')` so that you can use
  stringz from within templates, e.g. `<%= stringz.formatMoney(account.balance) %>`.
- `tbone.render(elementArray)`: Render TBone Views/templates (recursively)
  for each of the DOM elements passed.  Most applications can kick off TBone
  with a single call to `tbone.render($('[tbone]'))`.
- `tbone.defaultView(view)`: Set the default View to use when rendering a
  template with no corresponding View.

### View methods

- `view.extend`, `view.make`: Same as for Models.
- `view.query(prop)`: Reads **prop** from the view's **root**.
- `view.$(selector)`: Query DOM elements inside this View.  Always use this
  instead of using the global `$(selector)`.

### View properties

- `view.el`: Root DOM element of the View.
- `view.$el`: JQuery selection of the root DOM element of the View.

Example:
```javascript
tbone.createView('widget', function () {
    this.$('span').text('42');
    this.$('a[href]').click(function () {
        tbone.set('selected.widget', $(this).attr('id'));
        return false;
    })
});
// => creates a view named widget that listens for user interaction and
//    sets the 'selected.widget'
```

### tbone DOM attribute

Views recursively render sub-Views by searching for [tbone] attributes, e.g.:

```html
<div tbone="tmpl awesomeTemplate"></div>
<div tbone="view superView"></div>
<div tbone="tmpl itemTemplate root items.3"></div>
```

Three properties can be specified in these tbone attributes:

- `tmpl <name>`: Renders the template named **name**.  Implies also that
  the View by the same name will also be run after rendering the template.
- `view <name>`: Executes the View named **name** on this element.
- `root <prop>`: Passes **prop** as the View's **root**, which can be used
  by the View ready function to look up properties on that object via
  `this.query(prop)`.

## Even more fun stuff!

- `tbone.views`, `tbone.models`, `tbone.collections`, `tbone.templates`:
  All the stuff you've added to TBone.
- `TBONE_DEBUG`: Set to true just before loading TBone in order to enable
  debug output & features (not available using Production minified source).
- `tbone.freeze()`: Freeze the page; no further TBone updates will occur.
- `tbone.watchLog(query)`: Output log information to the console for **query**.
  Interesting things to try: 'scheduler', 'exec', 'lookups', or the name of
  View/Model/Collection.
- `tbone.noConflict()`: Reset `T` and `tbone` to what they were before TBone
  loaded.
- `tbone.isReady()`: There are no pending Model/View updates, including
  async Models that are waiting for ajax data.  This is helpful for automated
  testing to determine that the page has "settled".
- `tbone.getListeners(**model**)`: Returns list of all the unique listeners
  that [recursively!] depend on **model**.
- `tbone.hasViewListener(**model**)`: Returns true if a View is listening
  either directly or indirectly (i.e. through other model dependencies) for
  changes to **model**.  This is used internally by TBone to prevent loading
  ajax data for any models that are not needed as part of the UI currently.

## License

Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Dan Tillberg, AppNeta

TBone is freely redistributable under the MIT License.  See LICENSE for details.

Commit message:

Added requirements to README.  Fixed unit tests for IE7 and up.

README.md, after:

TBone
=====

### Declarative programming in Javascript

TBone extends live template binding to Javascript functions.

Similarly to how live templates bind automatically to changes in any of the
properties used to render them, TBone uses T-functions to track all the
dependencies of a function, and will re-run them any time those values
change.

### Example

```javascript
// Bind `fullname` to be the concatenation of `first` and `last`
T('fullname', function () {
    return T.text('first') + ' ' + T.text('last');
});

T('first', 'Sally'); // Set `first` to 'Sally'
T('last', 'Smith'); // Set `last` to 'Smith'

// Set `last` to 'Rogers' after 2 seconds
setTimeout(function () {
    T('last', 'Rogers');
}, 2000);

// Create an auto-executing T-function that sets span text based on `fullname`
T(function () {
    $('span').text(T.text('fullname'));
    // -> "Sally Smith"
    // -> after 2 seconds, "Sally Rogers"
});
```

In addition to declarative-programming infrastructure, TBone provides
functions for rendering live templates/views, as well as models and
collections.

TBone was originally built as an extension upon Backbone, and owes
much of its Model/View API (as well as a verbatim copy of
Backbone.sync), to [Backbone](http://backbonejs.org/).

## Download

* [Development version, with comments](http://cdn.tbonejs.org/tbone-v0.3.0.js) *23kB gzipped*
* [Production version, minified](http://cdn.tbonejs.org/tbone-v0.3.0.min.js) *5.4kB gzipped*

For personal use or low-traffic sites, feel free to use our CDN:

```html
Development: <script src="http://cdn.tbonejs.org/tbone-v0.3.0.js"></script>
Production: <script src="http://cdn.tbonejs.org/tbone-v0.3.0.min.js"></script>
```

## Requirements

* JQuery or Zepto
* Underscore.js

Modern browsers are best.  All unit tests pass in IE7+, though some parts, especially
View updates, should be considered experimental for IE8 and older.

## The Four Tenets of TBone

### run: `T(fn)`

Run **fn** now, and again anytime its dependencies change.

- **fn**: Function.  This is executed immediately.  **fn** will get re-run
  again anytime the T-references it makes change.  Thus, generally **fn**
  should be [idempotent](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idempotence#Computer_science_meaning),
  though advanced users may find other strategies useful.

### get: `T(prop)`

Gets **prop** and bind current T-function to changes in it.

- **prop**: String.  e.g. 'name' or 'person.name.first'

### set value: `T(prop, value)`

Sets **prop** to **value**.

- **prop**: String.  e.g. 'name' or 'person.name.first'.
- **value**: any serializable object (String, Number, Array, Object, Date),
  or a TBone/Backbone model/collection.

### set function: `T(prop, fn)`

Binds **prop** to the live result of **fn**

- **prop**: String.  e.g. 'name' or 'person.name.first'.
- **fn**: Function.  The return value of this function will be set to **prop**.
  This function gets re-run any time its dependencies change.

## TBone Models

`T` (or `tbone`) is just a TBone model.  You can make more!

- `tbone.models.base`: Base TBone Model
- `model.extend(prototypeProperties)`: Creates your very own TBone Model prototype.
- `model.make(instanceProperties)`: Make a new model instance.

### Model methods

- `model(...)`: Models are callable, using the Four Tenets of TBone above.
- `model.text(prop)`: read **prop** from the model, except return an empty string
  if the value is not a string, Number other than NaN, or a Date.
- `model.toggle(prop)`: sets **prop** to !**prop**, i.e. alternate between
  true and false.
- `model.query(prop, [value])`: Same as get / set value.
- `model.find(value)`: Search for **value**, and return the prop path of the
  first match found (using referential equality, ===).
- `model.push(prop, value)`: Add **value** at the end of the list at **prop**.
- `model.unshift(prop, value)`: Insert **value** at beginning of the list at
  **prop**.
- `model.removeFirst(prop)`: Remove the first item from the list at **prop**,
  like `shift` except that you don't get the value back.
- `model.removeLast(prop)`: Remove the last item from the list at **prop**,
  like `pop` except that you don't get the value back.

### Model properties

- `model.url`: Override this to set either a URL or function that returns
  a URL to fetch data via XHR.  If a function, you can use T-references to
  make this model re-fetch data on a property change (e.g. applying a filter).
- `model.state`: Override this with a function to generate this model's data.
  This has similar utility to `T(prop, fn)`.

### Collections

TBone Collections are a subclass of Model.  The main difference is that the
root data item is an Array instead of an Object.

- `tbone.collections.base`: Base TBone Collection.
- `collection.extend`, `collection.make`, etc.: Same as for Models.

## TBone Views

- `tbone.createView(name, fn)`: Set the View "ready" function for **name**.
  Match this up to a template by syncing **name** with the template's **name**.
- `tbone.addTemplate(name, template)`: Register a new template, either a string
  or a function.  If a string is passed, it will be passed to _.template after
  re-writing variable references in the template as tbone queries.
- `tbone.dontPatch(prop)`: Don't tbone-query-patch variables starting with
  **prop** in tbone.addTemplate.  For example, if you have a formatting library
  at `window.stringz`, use `tl.dontPatch('stringz')` so that you can use
  stringz from within templates, e.g. `<%= stringz.formatMoney(account.balance) %>`.
- `tbone.render(elementArray)`: Render TBone Views/templates (recursively)
  for each of the DOM elements passed.  Most applications can kick off TBone
  with a single call to `tbone.render($('[tbone]'))`.
- `tbone.defaultView(view)`: Set the default View to use when rendering a
  template with no corresponding View.

### View methods

- `view.extend`, `view.make`: Same as for Models.
- `view.query(prop)`: Reads **prop** from the view's **root**.
- `view.$(selector)`: Query DOM elements inside this View.  Always use this
  instead of using the global `$(selector)`.

### View properties

- `view.el`: Root DOM element of the View.
- `view.$el`: JQuery selection of the root DOM element of the View.

Example:
```javascript
tbone.createView('widget', function () {
    this.$('span').text('42');
    this.$('a[href]').click(function () {
        tbone.set('selected.widget', $(this).attr('id'));
        return false;
    })
});
// => creates a view named widget that listens for user interaction and
//    sets the 'selected.widget'
```

### tbone DOM attribute

Views recursively render sub-Views by searching for [tbone] attributes, e.g.:

```html
<div tbone="tmpl awesomeTemplate"></div>
<div tbone="view superView"></div>
<div tbone="tmpl itemTemplate root items.3"></div>
```

Three properties can be specified in these tbone attributes:

- `tmpl <name>`: Renders the template named **name**.  Implies also that
  the View by the same name will also be run after rendering the template.
- `view <name>`: Executes the View named **name** on this element.
- `root <prop>`: Passes **prop** as the View's **root**, which can be used
  by the View ready function to look up properties on that object via
  `this.query(prop)`.

## Even more fun stuff!

- `tbone.views`, `tbone.models`, `tbone.collections`, `tbone.templates`:
  All the stuff you've added to TBone.
- `TBONE_DEBUG`: Set to true just before loading TBone in order to enable
  debug output & features (not available using Production minified source).
- `tbone.freeze()`: Freeze the page; no further TBone updates will occur.
- `tbone.watchLog(query)`: Output log information to the console for **query**.
  Interesting things to try: 'scheduler', 'exec', 'lookups', or the name of
  View/Model/Collection.
- `tbone.noConflict()`: Reset `T` and `tbone` to what they were before TBone
  loaded.
- `tbone.isReady()`: There are no pending Model/View updates, including
  async Models that are waiting for ajax data.  This is helpful for automated
  testing to determine that the page has "settled".
- `tbone.getListeners(**model**)`: Returns list of all the unique listeners
  that [recursively!] depend on **model**.
- `tbone.hasViewListener(**model**)`: Returns true if a View is listening
  either directly or indirectly (i.e. through other model dependencies) for
  changes to **model**.  This is used internally by TBone to prevent loading
  ajax data for any models that are not needed as part of the UI currently.

## License

Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Dan Tillberg, AppNeta

TBone is freely redistributable under the MIT License.  See LICENSE for details.
